Now bring it!
He got it up!
You'll be begging for mercy when I'm done with you, Ushiwaka!
If you wanna beat Wakatoshi, you're gonna have to go through me.
Whoa...
The Guessing Monster makes his appearance.
What do they mean by that?
Does he scare people by guessing their name correctly or something?
I-Is he going to poke them in the eyes or something?
Be careful, Hinata!
That'd be cheating.
Give us a good one, Reon!
Sorry!
Finish it off, Kageyama!
Stop them again!
Blocking isn't about stopping the ball.
Tsutomu, cover the straight spike.
It's a technique to smack down the ball.
All right!
When you're able to get a clean block off,
that's a powerful psychological technique all on its own.
I'm starting to get into it!
Get the next one!
Shake it off, Kageyama!
Shake, shake it off! Kageyama!
Nice receive!
So naive.
All right!
My guess blocking is worth 120 points today!
How is he able to react like that?
It's not just his reaction time.
In that moment, there were three possibilities.
First, Kageyama's in the front row currently, so it was possible for him to do a setter dump.
So he had to consider that.
If he wasn't going to do a dump,
he could've set to Tanaka or Hinata in the front row and Azumane or Sawamura in the back row.
And in this case, he picked Hinata,
but there were also a few places Hinata could've spiked it.
You can see quite a bit from up here,
but when you're on the court, you can get lost in the chaos easily.
So even if you know which way you want to go, your body may not move right.
But his body can do it.
I guess it's no surprise that they took a timeout.
I totally thought that they were going to do a back row attack just now.
I mean, he gave that other guy a look.
That was a total fake out.
Huh?
Karasuno's setter is pretty good, right?
Yet that glance was way too obvious and over the top.
Glances, footwork, and ball handling...
If Tendou figures any of those things out, you're finished.
Nice block, Satori.
Thanks.
Sorry I'm the one standing out today, Wakatoshi.
That's not a problem.
We're going to stop them here!
Hinata, we're going to switch things up! Get this next one!
Right!
Hey, Kageyama, what's wrong with your face?
Nothing's wrong.
You liar!
It's one thing when my spike gets blocked,
but it pisses me off a million times more when a spike from my set gets blocked.
How is their number five able to keep blocking like that?
You remember read blocking, right?
You see where the set is going before jumping up to block, right?
Yeah.
"Read" in this case doesn't necessarily mean to see it coming, but more to understand your opponent.
Since you're jumping up after watching the ball, there's no danger in the set tricking you.
You'll react a little slowly, but if you can make up for that by getting three blockers in place, it's the most effective.
We're still trying to learn this technique.
On the other hand, what's special about number five...
is his reading and intuition.
He does guess blocking.
By "guess," I mean it's more like a prediction.
He predicts what attack we'll do before the set goes up, and then he'll jump pretty much on intuition.
Guess?!
Of course, there'll be times where his intuition is off,
and he might get in the way of his team's blocks and receives.
This is definitely a style of blocking that doesn't work for everyone.
That said, I think he's so accurate with his guesses that it's scary.
On top of that, his body can react to those guesses.
It'd be best to assume there's no pattern to the way he moves.
Don't overthink it and get distracted.
Yes, sir!
What do we need to do in order for him not to read our sets?
Does that mean Kageyama's going to have to do those crazy decoy moves that Hinata does too?
I wouldn't mind seeing that.
Give us another good serve!
Up front!
Sorry! It's short!
It doesn't matter how you try to fake Tendou out.
So this must be what it means to have perfect coordination.
I just barely missed it.
Yeah!
Go, go, Karasuno! Push it, push it, Karasuno!
I had no idea where the set was going to go until after he landed the spike.
You aimed that to go right over my head after what I just did, didn't you?
You must really be a sore loser.
I knew you guys would be interesting!
Here's a chance to score!
I've made a mistake!
Let's try again!
Okay!
Got it!
It'd be best to assume there's no pattern to the way he moves.
Don't overthink it and get distracted.
And with opponents like this,
it's best to lead them as far left or right as possible.
You just don't stop moving, do you?
All right!
Yes! We caught up!
Nice spike, Hinata!
Way to go, Hinata!
There have been setters who I admired for trying so hard to stop me from reading their moves,
but that number ten's timing is something else.
If I'm even one tempo late, I can't get it.
Were you just expecting us to forget your "I've made a mistake!" from earlier?
Ayup, I guess... You're talking strangely, Tendou.
Give us another good serve, Kageyama!
Nice receive!
This is their chance to attack!
I hit it!
Got it!
Did he try to fake me out?
Or did he just change his mind?
It really seems like conventional logic
doesn't work on Shiratorizawa.
Just what is with number five's blocking?
He's planning on stopping all of them on his own.
Huh?
Tendou's blocks are basically blocks used to score points.
He uses his opponent's spikes against them to score himself.
But there's more to blocking than just that.
The way we block to keep the ball in play can score points too if we get it to work.
In any case, depending on the timing, blocks can actually be more valuable than spikes.
I see.
Nice receive!
Don't let them pull away!
Ushijima!
If you give them an opening, they're not going to stop!
Nice spike, Ushijima!
That was like a spike to shut up the commoners.
Ushijima! Ushijima!
Ushiwaka's on another level, man.
In order to stop attacks, blocks evolve.
And in order to break through blocks, attacks also evolve.
Attacks become diverse by using the back row, getting faster, and players working in combination.
And then by changing how one jumps and where one jumps from, blocks shut down attacks.
They think they're at the top, but they continue to develop and reach even higher heights.
Looks like you've learned a few things, sir.
Those are just words.
I'm sure they kept developing their understanding through an unbreakable fighting spirit and unwavering tenacity.
All right!
While miraculous plays save the team,
the same can be said about improving their understanding.
Oh?
Hey, it's the normal guy.
Okay. Don't let him get to you.
Give us a good serve!
It's dropping!
Here's our chance!
Damn it! I'm sorry!
That delayed timing attack again?
Huh?
Tsukki!
Yes!
Hi. I'm the normal guy.
A one-man delayed timing attack may've fooled our feral children, but it doesn't work on me.
Take your best shot.
I knew that all you Karasuno first-years pissed me off, but you take the cake!
Thank you.
Screw you, man!
Give us a good serve, Asahi!
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Please don't stop thinking.
Ushijima! Ushijima!
Be Karasuno's understanding.
I'll definitely...
I'll definitely get my chance.
Please put me in. Please put me in. Please put me in.
Yamaguchi's really trying to will me to do something.
Huh?
I touched it!
Got it!
I hit it!
So annoying.
We can score here!
Yeah!
That was all yours, Tsutomu! Ya idjit!
If yer gonna stare at something, stare at a girl!
Y-Yes, sir!
Pfft... "Yes, sir."
I don't care if yer runnin' inta each other! Go for the damn ball, ya idjits!
And there's the demon coach.
I thought he was gonna stay quiet today.
Yeah!
Give us a good serve, Suga!
Reon, up front!
Switch places!
And then...
a synchronized attack!
Yeah!
Nice, Kageyama!
What?! What happened just now?!
Did the setter just spike?!
Those crafty bastards...
I guess things haven't changed, even with the grandson in charge.
Oh, right. Karasuno's coach is Coach Ukai's grandson.
Ukai...
He always did think that doing new things was the key to success.
I never did like him.
Always relying on the left-handed cannon is archaic.
Your team is ridiculous and has everyone attack, so no one's there to give backup!
There're only a certain number of things you can do with these high school teams that change every year.
Polishing the diamonds in the rough as best you can...
All right!
...is the best possible option.
Coach Washijou never changes.
Oohira! Oohira "Simple is best."
He loves tall and powerful players, and he's always on the lookout for talent.
Give us a good one, Reon.
Even if they didn't fit in on their old team,
if they fit Coach Washijou's definition of "skilled," there won't be a problem.
And then he puts them through hardcore training to get them in shape.
But they can't all be star players, right?
Of course not.
It's a stroke of luck even getting one player with Ushijima's skill.
Using a powerful player like him as the main attacker and making sure that no one gets in his way...
Ushijima!
probably sums up Shiratorizawa's style.
All right!
Ushiwaka really doesn't let up!
But there are still ways to turn things around.
Nice receive!
All right!
Nice spike, Tsutomu!
Give us a good serve, Shirabu!
Got it!
All right!
Nice one, Shouyou!
All this stress isn't good for my heart...
Me neither...
As long as I'm around, you're invincible!
I could never say something that confident,
but I've gotten to the point where I can be helpful.
Give us a good serve.
Their formation broke!
Good!
My chance will definitely... Sorry!
Wakatoshi!
Let's stop him!
Yeah!
Good.
I just need one high set.
Nice spike, Ushijima!
Ushijima! Ushijima!
This is what it means to be good.
Keep on breaking them!
What, you say? Their hearts!
Keep on shattering them!
What, you say?
Their blocks?
Nah, their spirits!
Keep on breaking them... I can never read this guy.
That brat with the glasses just won't give up.
If you would, sir.
Right!
Looks like not even that serve will keep them down.
Yeah.
When they're able to stop 'em, they can, and when they can't stop 'em, they can't! Got it?!
It's true that completely shutting them down or breaking through a three-person block looks cool,
and it'd excite you guys,
but don't be so eager to end things.
I'm sure that the rougher things get, the more you'll want to end things in one shot.
But don't forget to imagine how the rally could continue, whether it's making some contact or going for a rebound.
It's all about keeping the ball in play.
He doesn't mean you're supposed to put up your guard.
I know that!
I know you get sick of me saying this, but even plays that don't lead to points directly can be built on.
We're finally playing a best-of-five.
It'd be a waste to spend the whole time dreading how long you've still got.
Right! Let's do this!
Yeah!
Um...
Would you let me handle the timing...
for the three-person block?
Shirabu.
Don't forget to pass to Wakatoshi.
Right. Got it.
That little shit!
Now, now.
Give us a good one, Tsutomu!
Daichi!
Yeah!
Damn it! That number one is there every single time!
All right!
Give us a good serve, Daichi!
Tsutomu!
Right!
Nice receive!
I hit it!
Ryuu!
He kept the rally going!
Nice timing! And nice contact!
Keep it going!
They can't stop Ushijima.
What's Karasuno's coach so happy about?
They haven't stopped him yet.
Got it!
We can score here!
Nice spike, Oohira!
Oohira!
Give us a good serve, Taichi!
Here I go!
Nice receive, Shirabu!
He hit it at the setter on the spur of the moment.
Wakatoshi!
Cage him in!
What's important is the block's width and timing!
Make him feel our wall!
Here we go. Slowly.
Ready, and...
go!
And waiting where it breaks through...
is our super libero!
Everything they do is connected!
The set's nearing its end.
They finally got this important receive up.
It's gotta be... over here!
Seriously?
All right!
Yeah!
They finally executed it perfectly.
Total defense.
Now...
it really begins!
Keep on breaking them!
What, you say? Their hearts!
Keep on shattering them! What, you say?
Their spirits, right?
Nah, their will!
They both mean the same thing!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"The Halo Around the Moon."
Got a wish that can't be forced through
Barely hanging on and staying true
With a little help from timing and your crew
You can still stay standing
Wanna take the fight head-on
Might get lost, but keep on keeping on
'Cause that's where your chance lies
The rest is up to you, yes
The rest is up to you
Make your dreams and ideals come true
Or sit tight and let the future pass on through
The rest is up to you
You ain't the luckiest of guys
And you ain't anywhere near wise
The winds of change are too bright for your eyes
But you wanna have all the luck
Stuff all the wisdom junk in your trunk
And live holding your head up high
The rest is up to you, yes
It's all up to you People might call you naive
And say you're not doing it right
But the rest is up to you
Don't lose your way, and push on anew
It's all up to you
Light a fire in every cell of your body
By taking a deep, long breath
Turn your blood and tears into offerings
Carry a torch fueled by your desires
And scream out at full volume Let there be light
With a prayer for the future, start your sprint
Let there be light, use the dark as your runway
And sprint through the path you chose
Let there be light, believe in the glory within your grasp
And run headlong into the despair in front of you
Let there be light
There is only one reason I kick the ground
It is so I shine brighter and soar higher than before
Let there be light, so that your brilliance of today
Shows your friends who are lost The way to the future
To those who bear the cross of their dreams
The warriors who seek eternal glory Let there be light
Episode Three: The Guessing Monster
Episode Four: The Halo Around the Moon
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Karasuno                 Shiratorizawa
m 0 0 l 90 0 90 150 0 150
Net m 0 0 l 90 0 90 150 0 150
Net
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Japanese National High School Volleyball Tournament
Karasuno                   Shiratorizawa
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Karasuno                 Shiratorizawa
Shiratorizawa                  Karasuno
Karasuno                    Shiratorizawa
Be Courageous Warriors Be Courageous Warriors
Karasuno                   Shiratorizawa
Karasuno                  Shiratorizawa
Karasuno                    Shiratorizawa
Karasuno High School vs. Shiratorizawa Academy
Karasuno High School vs. Shiratorizawa Academy !!
!!
Haikyuu Haikyuu !!
Haikyuu !!
Haikyuu